Themis specification: keys and keypairs (#25)
cossacklabs/product-docs: themis/spec/asymmetric-keypairs/ecc.md

---
weight: 10
title:  EC keys
---

# EC keys

In *elliptic curve cryptography* (ECC), keys are defined by a number of parameters.
**Domain parameters** describe a particular curve used for operations.

> It is critical to use a good curve with secure properties,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is critical to use a "good" curve with validated security properties,
```

Author: Why quotes then?
```suggestion
It is critical to use a curve with validated security properties,
```

using the following snippet in Go:

```go
package main

import (
	"crypto/elliptic"
	"encoding/base64"
	"fmt"
	"math/big"
)

func main() {
	xB64 := "pLH3KEPKA2HhgRvQtKEtmsSBOixgXbJFUbikcahpro0="
	kB64 := "0oD5o87BcSr5U9BIqmPTstk7vCAUKaZUSoRP/Lpoq8k="
	x, _ := base64.StdEncoding.DecodeString(xB64)
	k, _ := base64.StdEncoding.DecodeString(kB64)

	curve := elliptic.P256()

	xComputed, yComputed := curve.ScalarBaseMult(k)

	// Computed x coordinate must match the one from the public key
	if xComputed.Cmp(new(big.Int).SetBytes(x)) == 0 {
		fmt.Println("✅ P = k × G (x coordinate correct)")
	} else {
		fmt.Println("❌ P = k × G (x coordinate correct)")
	}

	// Computed y coordinate must be odd, as indicated by the public key
	rem := new(big.Int).Mod(yComputed, big.NewInt(2))
	if rem.Cmp(big.NewInt(1)) == 0 {
		fmt.Println("✅ P = k × G (y coordinate is odd)")
	} else {
		fmt.Println("❌ P = k × G (y coordinate is odd)")
	}
}
```

## Generating EC keys

The recommended way to generate EC keypairs is to use a cryptography library.

See also our [key management guide](/themis/crypto-theory/key-management/)
for advice on securing the keys after you have generated them.

> Here is a snippet in Go, illustrating how to generate a good EC keypair:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a snippet in Go, illustrating how to generate EC keypair using P256 curve:
```
